#### What is a Network ?
- **In a broader sense,** a network refers to a collection of [[Interconnected]] components that are linked together to share information, services or resources.

#### What is a Computer Network ?
- A computer network is a collection of [[Interconnected]] devices, such as computers, servers, routers, switches, and other hardware, that are linked together to share resources and information.
- These devices communicate with each other using various technologies, such as Ethernet, **Wi-Fi**, or cellular networks.
- A computer network is a set of **nodes** connected by **communication links**.
- **A node can be a computer, printer or any other device capable of sending / receiving data generated by other nodes in the network**
- **Communication link can be a wired link or wireless link.{link carries the information.}**
- 
 
#### Scope
- Networking is everywhere.
- Networks support the way we learn 
- Networks support the way we communicate
- Network support the way we work
- Networks support the way we play.

#### TODO: defination of end devies and intermiarry dievices
.

#### Basic Characteristics of computer network.
- Fault Tolerance
- Scalability
- Quality of service
- Security.

##### Fault Tolerance
- The ability to :
	- continue working despite failure
	- Ensure no lost of service.
##### Scalability
- The ability to:
	- Grow based on the needs 
	- Have good performance after growth
##### Quality of Service
- The ability to:
	- set priorities
	- manage data traffic to reduce data loss, delay etc.
##### Security
- The ability to prevent:
	- unauthorized access
	- misuse
	- forgery
- The ability to provide:
	- Confidentiality
	- Integrity
	- Availability

To Next topics.
	[[Data Communication]]